README.md, before:

# Julian Ng

Junior full-stack developer with a passion for developing beautiful apps using simple code. I have experience across client-side, server-side and database technologies using object oriented design. I have a partial bias towards front-end development for its visual creativity but I am also strong at applying back-end logic. My ultimate goal is to become a game developer but I appreciate that there is a lot I can learn along the way from other industries.

I spent the first 8 years of my professional career as a business change & analytics consultant until I finally decided to re-train to become a software developer, which has been a long-held and much-delayed ambition of mine. I have a passion for problem solving and a keen eye for detail which, when combined with my previous professional experience, provides me with a strong foundation for programming.


[PROJECTS](#projects) | [SKILLS](#skills) | [EXPERIENCE](#professional-experience) | [EDUCATION](#education-and-qualifications) | [HOBBIES](#hobbies) | [NETWORKS](#networks-and-media)

# Projects
## Makers Academy Projects
|Project|Summary|Team Size|Tech Stack|Testing|
|-------|-------|---------|----------|-------|
|[Acebook](https://github.com/julesnuggy/acebook-byte-3)|An innovative and one-of-a-kind social media web app created with Ruby on Rails, brought to you by Team Splendaberg over two weeks. Held role of project manager throughout. [Deployed on Heroku](https://splendaberg-acebook.herokuapp.com) using Continuous Integration & Deployment.|4|Ruby on Rails, PostgreSQL, HTML/CSS, Heroku, Amazon S3|RSpec, Capybara, Rubocop, Travis CI, CodeClimate|
|[Tasteless Notes](https://github.com/julesnuggy/TastelessNotes)|Single-page app for making tacky notes. Developed by Team Tasteless Sheep, this project required using only vanilla JavaScript and creating our own test framework to TDD with.|4|JavaScript|Tasteless Tests|
|[Thermostat](https://github.com/julesnuggy/thermostat)|Single-page app for controlling your (fictional) thermostat. I am particularly proud of this app for its  persistent data feature without a database. Connected to a weather API to display the London temperature.|2|JavaScript|Jasmine|
|[Bowling](https://github.com/julesnuggy/bowling-challenge)|Find it difficult to keep track of your bowling score because of the complicated logic? Wish you had an app which gamefied the game to make it gamier? Hate page refreshes? Struggle no more with this one-page JavaScript bowling scorecard!|1|JavaScript, jQuery, Node.JS, Express|Zombie|
|[Rock, Paper, Scissors](https://github.com/julesnuggy/rps-challenge)|A digital version of the classic digit-manipulation game. I had great fun making this app look nice. |1|Ruby, Sinatra|RSpec, Rubocop, Capybara|

## Personal Projects
|Project|Summary|Team Size|Tech Stack|Testing|
|-------|-------|---------|----------|-------|
|[Cantuar](https://github.com/julesnuggy/cantuar)|A project which I started to help my partner learn Cantonese. He wanted something which he could create and store "flashcards" to practice phrases and test himself. The aim is to have custom flashcards displayed randomly to translate or respond to.|1|Ruby on Rails, PostgreSQL, HTML/CSS|RSpec, Rubocop, Capybara|

# Skills
## Analysis and Reporting
I am highly experienced in analysing vast amounts of complex data to generate meaningful insights and inform critical business decisions. I regularly reported these findings and recommendations to stakeholders via written reports and delivering presentations.
* I was the **Lead Analyst** for an organisation-wide cultural assessment for Dstl, who sought to implement new knowledge sharing practices to strengthen their innovative capabilities.
* I analysed 500+ responses to a structured questionnaire I developed in accordance with an established assessment tool, and generated the subsequent findings report.
* The report identified current and desired organisational cultures; recommended steps to move towards the desired culture; and outlined how this would impact the customer going forward.
* My work provided the customer with a quantitative view of which initiatives and methods to employ, ensuring effective and efficient allocation of resources.

## Leadership
As a leader, I take an approach which combines emotional intelligence, open communication, trust, and personal development.
* In the role of **UK Solution Lead for Thales Intelligence Services**, I was responsible for developing and delivering a new UK-wide service from the ground up.
* I led a team comprising of analysts and managers to develop the business case (market demand, competition, partnerships, financial model, business model, etc.); deliver the marketing campaign; and manage the opportunity pipeline.
* I led a team of junior and experienced analysts to deliver the launched service, appropriately delegating tasks and coordinating with international partners.
* My role resulted in delivery of intelligence reporting to government, police, defence and transport clients across the UK.

## Stakeholder Management
I am able to confidently engage with and manage internal and external stakeholders across all levels, from junior team members to senior customer executives.
* In the role of **Thales Frameworks Manager**, I was responsible for managing all aspects of the company’s most critical frameworks, which were pipelines for potential work valued up to £2M each.
* I presented proposal cases to company stakeholders, coordinated inter-business unit bid teams, engaged with external partners, worked alongside commercial teams, and negotiated with framework and customer contacts.
* My role resulted in consistently high-quality bids, adherence to company policies and processes, and continued participation on the frameworks.

## Project Management
I am able to manage projects to deliver high quality outcomes to time and budget. This includes management of time, resources, work packages and documentation.
* For the **Acebook project**, I managed the project and team to ensure delivery of a product we would be proud to present.
* Responsibilities included facilitating decisions (team objective, MVP specification, feature prioritisation), team co-ordination (stand-ups, retros, task assignation, ad hoc workshops), and managing documentation (Trello card wall, Wiki, README).
* This resulted in effective teamwork, working around illnesses / absences, to deliver a quality product in just 2 weeks.

# Professional Experience
**Thales UK** || Senior Consultant - Business Analysis & Change || _Sep 2011 - Jan 2018_

**QinetiQ** || Consultant - Business Analysis || _Jul 2009 - Aug 2011_

# Education and Qualifications
**Makers Academy** || Full-Stack Web Development Bootcamp || _Feb 2018 - May 2018_

* Approaches and Principles
  * OOD, TDD, BDD, SOLID
  * XP Values, Agile
  * Solo, pair and team programming


* Technical Skills
  * Server-side: Ruby, Rails, JavaScript, Node.js, express
  * Client-side: HTML, CSS, jQuery
  * Databases: PostgreSQL, MongoDB
  * Test Frameworks: Sinatra, RSpec, Capybara, Jasmine, Mocha, Chai, Zombie
  * Others: Travis CI, CodeClimate, Heroku, AWS S3

**PRINCE2** || Practitioner Qualified || _2013 - 2018_

**University of Bristol** || 2:1 (BSc Hons) - Economics with Study in Continental Europe || _2005 - 2009_

**Universitat de Valencia** || Erasmus Year Abroad Studying || _2007 - 2008_

**Tae Kwon Do** || Kukkikwon Certified 1st Dan Black Belt || _Aug 2009_

# Hobbies
I go to the gym 3-4 times a week as it is important for me to stay physically fit. I train my brain all the time so my body needs to keep up.

Travelling is a passion for me - seeing, learning and experiencing other countries, cultures and (importantly) food!

I'm also an avid gamer - a PlayStation loyalist with a love for the Final Fantasy series. My desire to work in the gaming industry stems from this passion.

As a linguist, I love to learn other languages - I can speak Cantonese, Mandarin, and Spanish.

# Networks and Media
<div style="text-align: center; letter-spacing: 20px">

  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/julian-ng-43589420">
  <img src="https://cdn1.iconfinder.com/data/icons/logotypes/32/square-linkedin-128.png" alt="linkedin" hspace="50" height="42" width="42"></a>

  <a href="https://medium.com/@julesnuggy">
  <img src="https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*emiGsBgJu2KHWyjluhKXQw.png" alt="medium" hspace="50" height="42" width="42"></a>

  <a href="https://julesnuggy.github.io">
  <img src="https://image.ibb.co/mUEBv6/20171025220618_enhanced.jpg" alt="medium" hspace="50" height="42" width="42"></a>

</div>

Commit message:

Added Final Project to table

README.md, after:

# Julian Ng

Junior full-stack developer with a passion for developing beautiful apps using simple code. I have experience across client-side, server-side and database technologies using object oriented design. I have a partial bias towards front-end development for its visual creativity but I am also strong at applying back-end logic. My ultimate goal is to become a game developer but I appreciate that there is a lot I can learn along the way from other industries.

I spent the first 8 years of my professional career as a business change & analytics consultant until I finally decided to re-train to become a software developer, which has been a long-held and much-delayed ambition of mine. I have a passion for problem solving and a keen eye for detail which, when combined with my previous professional experience, provides me with a strong foundation for programming.


[PROJECTS](#projects) | [SKILLS](#skills) | [EXPERIENCE](#professional-experience) | [EDUCATION](#education-and-qualifications) | [HOBBIES](#hobbies) | [NETWORKS](#networks-and-media)

# Projects
## Makers Academy Projects
|Project|Summary|Team Size|Tech Stack|Testing|
|-------|-------|---------|----------|-------|
|[Codecraft](https://github.com/KTSE-2018/KTSE)|Final Project - a simulation survival strategy role playing game where you play the role of Ada, a student at a coding bootcamp. Coded entirely in vanilla JavaScript and jQuery without any game engines or frameworks in just two weeks. [Deployed on Heroku]( https://codecraft-game.herokuapp.com/)|5|JavaScript, jQuery, Node.js, Express, HTML, CSS, Heroku|Mocha, Chai, Zombie|
|[Acebook](https://github.com/julesnuggy/acebook-byte-3)|An innovative and one-of-a-kind social media web app created with Ruby on Rails, brought to you by Team Splendaberg over two weeks. Held role of project manager throughout. [Deployed on Heroku](https://splendaberg-acebook.herokuapp.com) using Continuous Integration & Deployment.|4|Ruby on Rails, PostgreSQL, HTML/CSS, Heroku, Amazon S3|RSpec, Capybara, Rubocop, Travis CI, CodeClimate|
|[Tasteless Notes](https://github.com/julesnuggy/TastelessNotes)|Single-page app for making tacky notes. Developed by the 'Tasteless Sheep' team using only vanilla JavaScript - the only Node package used was http-server. Created our own test framework to TDD with.|4|JavaScript, HTML, CSS|Tasteless Tests|
|[Thermostat](https://github.com/julesnuggy/thermostat)|Single-page app for controlling your (fictional) thermostat. I am particularly proud of this app for its  persistent data feature without a database. Connected to a weather API to display the London temperature.|2|JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS|Jasmine|
|[Bowling](https://github.com/julesnuggy/bowling-challenge)|Find it difficult to keep track of your bowling score because of the complicated logic? Wish you had an app which gamified the game to make it gamier? Hate page refreshes? Struggle no more with this one-page JavaScript bowling scorecard!|1|JavaScript, jQuery, Node.JS, Express, HTML, CSS|Zombie|
|[Rock, Paper, Scissors](https://github.com/julesnuggy/rps-challenge)|A digital version of the classic digit-manipulation game. I had great fun making this app look nice. |1|Ruby, Sinatra, HTML, CSS|RSpec, Rubocop, Capybara|

## Personal Projects
|Project|Summary|Team Size|Tech Stack|Testing|
|-------|-------|---------|----------|-------|
|[Cantuar](https://github.com/julesnuggy/cantuar)|A project which I started to help my partner learn Cantonese. He wanted something which he could create and store "flashcards" to practice phrases and test himself. The aim is to have custom flashcards displayed randomly to translate or respond to.|1|Ruby on Rails, PostgreSQL, HTML/CSS|RSpec, Rubocop, Capybara|

# Skills
## Analysis and Reporting
I am highly experienced in analysing vast amounts of complex data to generate meaningful insights and inform critical business decisions. I regularly reported these findings and recommendations to stakeholders via written reports and delivering presentations.
* I was the **Lead Analyst** for an organisation-wide cultural assessment for Dstl, who sought to implement new knowledge sharing practices to strengthen their innovative capabilities.
* I analysed 500+ responses to a structured questionnaire I developed in accordance with an established assessment tool, and generated the subsequent findings report.
* The report identified current and desired organisational cultures; recommended steps to move towards the desired culture; and outlined how this would impact the customer going forward.
* My work provided the customer with a quantitative view of which initiatives and methods to employ, ensuring effective and efficient allocation of resources.

## Leadership
As a leader, I take an approach which combines emotional intelligence, open communication, trust, and personal development.
* In the role of **UK Solution Lead for Thales Intelligence Services**, I was responsible for developing and delivering a new UK-wide service from the ground up.
* I led a team comprising of analysts and managers to develop the business case (market demand, competition, partnerships, financial model, business model, etc.); deliver the marketing campaign; and manage the opportunity pipeline.
* I led a team of junior and experienced analysts to deliver the launched service, appropriately delegating tasks and coordinating with international partners.
* My role resulted in delivery of intelligence reporting to government, police, defence and transport clients across the UK.

## Stakeholder Management
I am able to confidently engage with and manage internal and external stakeholders across all levels, from junior team members to senior customer executives.
* In the role of **Thales Frameworks Manager**, I was responsible for managing all aspects of the company’s most critical frameworks, which were pipelines for potential work valued up to £2M each.
* I presented proposal cases to company stakeholders, coordinated inter-business unit bid teams, engaged with external partners, worked alongside commercial teams, and negotiated with framework and customer contacts.
* My role resulted in consistently high-quality bids, adherence to company policies and processes, and continued participation on the frameworks.

## Project Management
I am able to manage projects to deliver high quality outcomes to time and budget. This includes management of time, resources, work packages and documentation.
* For the **Acebook project**, I managed the project and team to ensure delivery of a product we would be proud to present.
* Responsibilities included facilitating decisions (team objective, MVP specification, feature prioritisation), team co-ordination (stand-ups, retros, task assignation, ad hoc workshops), and managing documentation (Trello card wall, Wiki, README).
* This resulted in effective teamwork, working around illnesses / absences, to deliver a quality product in just 2 weeks.

# Professional Experience
**Thales UK** || Senior Consultant - Business Analysis & Change || _Sep 2011 - Jan 2018_

**QinetiQ** || Consultant - Business Analysis || _Jul 2009 - Aug 2011_

# Education and Qualifications
**Makers Academy** || Full-Stack Web Development Bootcamp || _Feb 2018 - May 2018_

* Approaches and Principles
  * OOD, TDD, BDD, SOLID
  * XP Values, Agile
  * Solo, pair and team programming


* Technical Skills
  * Server-side: Ruby, Rails, JavaScript, Node.js, express
  * Client-side: HTML, CSS, jQuery
  * Databases: PostgreSQL, MongoDB
  * Test Frameworks: Sinatra, RSpec, Capybara, Jasmine, Mocha, Chai, Zombie
  * Others: Travis CI, CodeClimate, Heroku, AWS S3

**PRINCE2** || Practitioner Qualified || _2013 - 2018_

**University of Bristol** || 2:1 (BSc Hons) - Economics with Study in Continental Europe || _2005 - 2009_

**Universitat de Valencia** || Erasmus Year Abroad Studying || _2007 - 2008_

**Tae Kwon Do** || Kukkikwon Certified 1st Dan Black Belt || _Aug 2009_

# Hobbies
I go to the gym 3-4 times a week as it is important for me to stay physically fit. I train my brain all the time so my body needs to keep up.

Travelling is a passion for me - seeing, learning and experiencing other countries, cultures and (importantly) food!

I'm also an avid gamer - a PlayStation loyalist with a love for the Final Fantasy series. My desire to work in the gaming industry stems from this passion.

As a linguist, I love to learn other languages - I can speak Cantonese, Mandarin, and Spanish.

# Networks and Media
<div style="text-align: center; letter-spacing: 20px">

  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/julian-ng-43589420">
  <img src="https://cdn1.iconfinder.com/data/icons/logotypes/32/square-linkedin-128.png" alt="linkedin" hspace="50" height="42" width="42"></a>

  <a href="https://medium.com/@julesnuggy">
  <img src="https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*emiGsBgJu2KHWyjluhKXQw.png" alt="medium" hspace="50" height="42" width="42"></a>

  <a href="https://julesnuggy.github.io">
  <img src="https://image.ibb.co/mUEBv6/20171025220618_enhanced.jpg" alt="medium" hspace="50" height="42" width="42"></a>

</div>
